I used the Java programming language when constructing the program. For socket programming, user input, and scanner, I imported the java.io and java.util libraries. For the encryption/decryption implementation, I imported the java.crypto and java.security libraries.
The IDE I used was Netbeans.
When running the code, I divided the functionality of the program into individual tests run to ensure certain parts of the program worked. I first ran the socket programming portion between the client and the server which initially yielded an error of running from an existing port being used by the first file. After consultation from the TA, I realized I had to go into command prompt and terminate the activation of the port in order to access it. Eventually, I managed to establish a socket connection. Next, I tested the encryption method which was also multifaceted. I first generate a key and printed it onto a text file so both the client and server could read from it. I implemented a scanner to take in user input from the client. Then, I built an encryption method (that took in the Scanner and SecretKey variables) that reads from the text file the key and is initialized into the key variable. The Key is then used to encrypt the message typed in by the user. A PrintWriter variable is also initialized and sends the encrypted message to the server, which it would read through a BufferedReader. This portion all works successfully. However, the main dilemma was decrypting the message. I implemented a decryption method (which structurally is similar to the encryption method with some alterations) but would give me an illegal block size exception when running the program. I reached out to the TA for assistance in helping me convert the bytes to hex before transmitting to the server (and converting back to bytes once it reached server). From there, I was able to decrypt the message and established a full communication. I then placed an infinite while loop over the communication portion of the code (read response, reply, encrypt, wait for message, decrypt). The user can exit the loop, only as client, is they type “Goodbye.” And the program ends.
